.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/default.md, before:

---
name: Obol Security Issue
about: Report a security issue within Obol Labs
title: ''
labels: 'security'
assignees: ''

---

# ARE YOU SUBMITTING A SECURITY ISSUE FOR OBOL LABS?
Please submit all security issues via this Github form. We take security incidents seriously and will prioritize their resolution.

**Why?**
To ensure that all security issues are triaged effectively, addressed promptly and kept track of, we encourage the use of this Github form. This way, we can organize, track, and manage security incidents in a streamlined manner.

**NOTE:**
This process is regularly reviewed, and the form and/or system may change over time. If you need an immediate response or the security incident is of high severity, please use an appropriate escalation such as a direct message to the #security channel in Slack, an escalation to your team, or open an incident in PagerDuty.

## **If urgent, here's how to reach out to us on Slack:**

1. Open the Slack application.
2. In the "Jump to..." search bar at the top, type `#security` and select the channel.
3. In the message field at the bottom, describe the security issue you're facing. Please provide as much context as possible.
4. Press Enter to send the message. A member of our security team will review and respond as soon as possible.

## Issue Description
Provide a detailed description of the security issue identified.

## Affected Components/Services

 <List the system components, services, or features affected by the vulnerability>

## Steps to Reproduce

 <Detail the steps needed to reproduce the vulnerability>

## Impact

 <Describe the potential impact of the vulnerability on our systems, services, and/or users>

## Additional Information

 <Add any other context, logs, screenshots, etc. about the vulnerability here>

## Proposed Mitigation or Remediation Steps

 <If available, provide any potential mitigation or remediation steps>

## Expected Resolution

 <What should be done to consider the vulnerability addressed>

Commit message:

Updated to use discord instead of slack
Signed-off-by: haroldsphinx <adedayoakinpelu@gmail.com>

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/default.md, after:

---
name: Obol Security Issue
about: Report a security issue within Obol Labs
title: ''
labels: 'security'
assignees: ''

---

# ARE YOU SUBMITTING A SECURITY ISSUE FOR OBOL LABS?
Please submit all security issues via this Github form. We take security incidents seriously and will prioritize their resolution.

**Why?**
To ensure that all security issues are triaged effectively, addressed promptly and kept track of, we encourage the use of this Github form. This way, we can organize, track, and manage security incidents in a streamlined manner.

**NOTE:**
This process is regularly reviewed, and the form and/or system may change over time. If you need an immediate response or the security incident is of high severity, please use an appropriate escalation such as a direct message to the #security channel in Slack, an escalation to your team, or open an incident in PagerDuty.

## **If urgent, here's how to reach out to us on Discord:**

- Open the Discord application.
- In the server list on the left, find and click on the **Obol Network** server.
- Scroll through the channel list on the left, and click on the #security channel.
- Press Enter to send the message. A member of our security team will review your message and respond as soon as possible.

## Issue Description
Provide a detailed description of the security issue identified.

## Affected Components/Services

 <List the system components, services, or features affected by the vulnerability>

## Steps to Reproduce

 <Detail the steps needed to reproduce the vulnerability>

## Impact

 <Describe the potential impact of the vulnerability on our systems, services, and/or users>

## Additional Information

 <Add any other context, logs, screenshots, etc. about the vulnerability here>

## Proposed Mitigation or Remediation Steps

 <If available, provide any potential mitigation or remediation steps>

## Expected Resolution

 <What should be done to consider the vulnerability addressed>
