# Incident Disclosure 2021-10-27

## Summary
- On October 27th the Yearn security team was notified of a malicious transaction involving a $500,000,000 flash loan and the yUSD Yearn vault token used as collateral on CREAM Finance.
- The team was able to quickly determine that this attack was against CREAM Finance, and that Yearn user funds were safe (more details on exactly how the exploit worked can be found [here](https://medium.com/cream-finance/post-mortem-exploit-oct-27-507b12bb6f8e))
- As an outcome of the exploit transaction, the Yearn yUSD vault had nearly doubled it's `pricePerShare` due to an airdropped "donation" to the vault.
- The Yearn team successfully recovered those 8,888,996 yUSD Curve LPs from the vault and have sent them to CREAM's multisig to be returned to attack victims. In the process, the vault's `pricePerShare` was reset back to pre-attack value.


## Background

Yearn vaults shares are considered interest-bearing. Meaning that a single share, as time passes, can be redeemed for increasingly more underlying tokens. While it is not possible to affect the `pricePerShare` of a vault by interacting with a vault's `deposit` function, it is possible to positively affect it by transferring tokens to the vault contract directly (bypassing the deposit function). This is a known mechanism which has in the past been used to "donate" underlying tokens to a vault [[1]](). We call this a "donation" because the donater receives no shares back, instead all of the the tokens are effectively booked as profit for existing shareholders.

Because `pricePerShare` can be manipulated in this way, extra care should be taken by money market protocols who wish to add vault tokens (or similar interest-bearing tokens) as a collateral type.


## Details of vulnerability

There were no vulnerabilities found in Yearn contracts. Rather, the exploit was possible due to the usage of interest-bearing tokens (Yearn's yUSD vault token) as a collateral type on CREAM. 

The attacker was able to use the "donation" method described in the section above to atomically increase the USD value of their yUSD collateral by nearly double on CREAM because the CREAM price oracle uses `pricePerShare` to determine dollar amount [[2]](#References). This increase in collateral value allowed them to "borrow" all liquid assets across the CREAM protocol. A more detailed analysis of the attack on CREAM can be found [here](https://medium.com/cream-finance/post-mortem-exploit-oct-27-507b12bb6f8e). An explaination on which collateral types can be affected by similar attacks can be found [here](https://twitter.com/flashfish0x/status/1455328783305744390).

## Details of fix

- In this scenario, Yearn vaults behaved how they are intended: proper accounting for airdrops by increasing `pricePerShare`. However, there was an opportunity for the team to recover funds for affected CREAM users.
- Following the attack, the Yearn team was able to temporarily block user deposits and withdrawals from the yUSD vault in order to freeze the airdropped amount for extraction, preventing any further users from depositing or withdrawing at the higher `pricePerShare`.
- To recover the airdropped funds, a custom yUSD strategy was deployed and harvested to salvage the funds donated by the hacker and offset the share price back to the normal value.
- The donated amount was sent to Cream multisig, as well as two users who had deposited at the inflated share price.[[3]](#References)
- Reimbursements were sent to depositors who were identified to have made a deposit during the artificially high share price, and therefore impacted when share price decreased.

## Timeline of events

**October 27, 2021, 13:54 (UTC):** Attacker sends transaction stealing ~$130M from CREAM users.

**14:21:** Yearn war room is established

**15:15:** While analysis is ongoing, as a precautionary measure, Yearn governance sets deposit limits to zero on all 5 yVaults who's tokens are available as collateral on CREAM markets. [[4]](#References)

**19:04:** After determining no present risk, deposit limits are re-enabled on ironbank, seth, and steth vaults. [[5]](#References)

**20:01:** A new strategy, designed to recover precisely the airdropped amount to yUSD vault, is deployed [[6]](#References) 

**20:56:** The new strategy is attached to yUSD vault. [[7]](#References)

**October 28, 2021 11:06** Strategy is harvested, fixing the share price and sending recovered funds to the Yearn governance multisig. [[8]](#References)


**October 29, 2021 18:49** Salvaged funds are sent to CREAM finance multisig, and to a depositor who deposited at higher pricePerShare. [[9]](#References)

## Third party disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document, the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements.[[5]](#References) However, due to the critical nature of the vulnerability, effort was made to determine whether this vulnerability was present on other similar tokens available as collateral on other money market protocols. Disclosures were made to those protocols (including Aave) and efforts to remediate are in progress at the time of publication.

## References

1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x19812e2f0c60b5ebab247a0432b943d2443153cde5392c26449351991fc3a8ca
2. https://github.com/CreamFi/compound-protocol/blob/7ae4ccd4041886a8853c4bd83fda095464b70f6f/contracts/PriceOracle/PriceOracleProxy.sol#L223
3. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xe004203b7ceee66c679bf80db6db40b6926d560fd6f212829e0c2e8c04f2c7e9
4. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x9afc216f0e48d8e8f0a1a35bd48da216816946b3c838491c995e6e41ddc275e9
5. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xb92a3e081a12225a5aa402e9a884f4353ddfa23e6796ade2cdc0b1cd28dc697e
6. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x9187103a76a7fa3de3c63d746495679193a769eec7467c9b9356d193224a2a0e
7. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xdde78faadf0d6d0edafce895e7059b5578652c61afe2a3ce663cafc9f7103f8e
8. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x9cc9c42e2da1a2ae774a6ac393aff5974462c999773ea0b04cdd41aebdf5d650
9. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xe004203b7ceee66c679bf80db6db40b6926d560fd6f212829e0c2e8c04f2c7e9
