# Incident disclosure 2021-05-14

## Summary
- An conservative setting on `SingleSidedCrvDAI` strategy has led to the strategy recording a large on paper loss when it was harvested out of turn.
- yvDAI v2 vault has experienced a temporary share price dip during the incident.
- No funds were lost and the share price has been brought back after the strategy was migrated.

## Background

`SingleSidedCrvDAI` strategy deposits DAI into the `ib3CRV` pool on Curve and then deposits that into another Yearn vault. The Curve pool contains cyDAI, cyUSDT and cyUSDC. 

The value of the strategy's position is calculated in the `estimatedTotalAssets` function. It aims to return the total value that could *actually* be obtained from this strategy if it were to divest its entire position based on the current on-chain conditions.

It simulates withdrawing all assets from the Curve pool back to DAI. In normal conditions this causes the strategy to conservatively report profit. But in times when the the Curve pool is unbalanced it could lead to reporting a loss. That loss increases exponentially the more unbalanced the pool gets.

## Details of Incident

As the pool was heavilly unbalanced at the time of the incident a large loss was reported. Note that this loss was just on paper as no withdrawal from Curve pool took place. And no withdrawal causing this amount of loss would be possible due to slippage protection in the strategy.

A paper loss of 4,932,713 DAI was incorrectly reported during the `harvest` function call[[1]](#References) which updates the vault's profit and loss figures. Correct practice was to wait for the pool to rebalance before calling harvest. But the incident was set off by a keeper mistakenly calling harvest on `SingleSidedCrvDAI` rather than the sister `SingleSidedCrvUSDC` strategy.

## Details of Fix

`estimatedTotalAssets` function was changed to report assets based on virtual price of the Curve pool rather than the realisable value[[2]](#References).

The first `harvest` of the fixed strategy has offset the paper loss and reported a 5,332,803 DAI profit, which is well in excess of the loss reported in the incident harvest[[3]](#References).

## Timeline of events
1. **May 14, 2021 08:32 (UTC)** A keeper calls harvest[[1]](#References) on `SingleSidedCrvDAI`, meaning to harvest `SingleSidedCrvUSDC`. This causes a loss to be reported and the share price of yvDAI to decrease.
3. **09:42** A user reports an unusual drop in yvDAI vault share price from 1.04323
 to 1.03531.
5. **10:13** Root cause is identified and the fix is produced[[2]](#References). 
6. **10:49** A fixed `SingleSidedCrvDAI` is deployed[[3]](#References) and the migration is queued in Yearn multisig.
7. **11:39** Migrate transaction is executed[[3]](#References) and the share price returns to normal.

## Third Party Disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document[[5]](#References), the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to to this publication.

## References

1. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x5558d40c511524b015cd307a134b3358f52326cf39c2c6e61604d5726c64dfdd
2. https://github.com/Grandthrax/SingleSidedCurve/commit/f12140f53a92e886bf3246c38cb9e97d2b2550dc
3. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x66847f4dc80a6b4c32666972a9a68416d802d78b54619503fd0aec358fedb185
4. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xc8cf642eaf73e0adadcd629d534ebd4fee795196745e6f217f06f5ea5a1b34fc
5. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md#yearns-security-process
