# Incident disclosure 2021-05-13

## Summary

- A missing check in a low-level call in `StrategyProxy` led to the non-atomic execution of a withdrawal transaction.
- This resulted in transactions burning the vault shares but not performing the actual withdrawal of funds when supplied with insufficient gas.
- No funds were lost. Four users of the crvAAVE vault encountered this issue, which has since been remediated. The users in question have been made whole.
- A new `StrategyProxy` has been deployed.

## Background

All Curve strategies indirectly interact with Yearn's `CurveYCRVVoter`[[1]](#References) contract to perform operations like `deposit` and `withdraw` against Curve gauges. For safety, these interactions are proxied through an access controlled `StrategyProxy`[[2]](#References) contract.

A partially failed withdrawal attempt revealed a flaw in the logic of `StrategyProxy` that could prevent the underlying funds being returned to the user, in certain scenarios.

## Details of Incident

Calls between `StrategyProxy` and `CurveYCRVVoter` use a low-level call function[[3]](#References) that returns either `true` or `false` to indicate whether the call was successful.

While `StrategyProxy` checked that the call was successful during `deposit` function calls (see 2020-09-25 disclosure[[4]](#References)), the same check was not performed during `withdraw`[[5]](#References) function calls. This led to an undesirable scenario where the transaction could succeed despite a failure in the branched call to `CurveYCRVVoter`. The end result was that a user's vault shares were burned, without any funds being withdrawn from the vault. The branched call failed due to an "_out of gas_" error (see example transaction[[6]](#References)).

It's possible this error was caused by the higher amount of gas required to claim the new `stkAAVE` token rewards from the two Curve gauges that recently added them: `crvAAVE` and `crvSAAVE`. No other gauges has experienced this same "_out of gas_" failure.

In total, four `crvAAVE` users were impacted during their withdrawal attempts. The transactions also led to a temporary `pricePerFullShare` increase as vault shares were burned without the commensurate amount of underlying funds being withdrawn from the vault.

No `crvSAAVE` vault users were affected.

## Details of Fix

All `CurveYCRVVoter.execute` calls in `StrategyProxy` have now use a `safeExecute` library function which checks that the call didn't revert. This ensures atomicity of transactions involving the proxy[[7]](#References).

The `crvAAVE` vault share price has been brought back down by withdrawing the excess funds from the gauge, and returning them to the affected users.

A short-term fix in the UI has been implemented to provide all users attempting a withdraw with a sufficient gas limit.

## Timeline of events

1. **May 14, 2021 00:52 (UTC)** Discord user reports a total loss on their withdraw transaction[[6]](#References) from yva3CRV vault.
2. **01:08** Root cause is identified in **StrategyProxy**.
3. **04:47** The proxy address is set to zero address on **StrategyCurvea3CRVVoterProxy**, restricting withdraws from and deposits to the affected Strategy[[8]](#References).
4. **04:48** The exact amount lost is withdrawn from the gauge, price per share is fixed[[9]](#References).
5. **05:32** The proxy address is reset back on **StrategyCurvea3CRVVoterProxy**[[10]](#References).
6. **05:34** Users are reimbursed, deployment of funds into Strategy is temporarily paused using `setMin(0)` on the Vault[[11]](#References).
7. **05:38** A frontend fix bumping the withdrawal gas limit to 2 million gas for all Curve vaults is implemented.
8. **06:02** A fix for `StrategyProxy` is created and proposed [[7]](#References).
9. **12:25** A new **StrategyProxy** contract is deployed [[12]](#References).
10. **16:01** `CurveYCRVVoter` is switched to a new `StrategyProxy`, all 31 Curve strategies are approved and switched to it[[13]](#References).

## Third Party Disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document[[14]](#References), the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to to this publication.

## References

1. https://etherscan.io/address/0xf147b8125d2ef93fb6965db97d6746952a133934
2. https://etherscan.io/address/0x9a165622a744c20e3b2cb443aed98110a33a231b#code
3. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-protocol/blob/a22eb5b88cec7698b75d9ea0db02f19b5e6e009b/contracts/strategies/CurveYCRVVoter.sol#L132
4. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/disclosures/2020-09-25.md
5. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-protocol/blob/a22eb5b88cec7698b75d9ea0db02f19b5e6e009b/contracts/strategies/StrategyProxy.sol#L83
6. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0xeb9062bf50df83515e49c899543bed538b9d12310d8c7415d1fa073ef6388ff9
7. https://github.com/banteg/yearn-protocol/pull/2/files
8. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x50e0dc9cb3e9538cf97267a9f481a82c72fa8e90c59d56d73ffadecf88fc3123
9. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x4eae1d4ed24686c025cf32931ac572dedb79cd4d589a2a49789542b6a84882d0
10. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x6b7e952975c69281067ae76983d450be7d4f440acb0b4fb1080f5f4fe38c8ed0
11. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x42418b0c9d727156ce09300d76d2da543220e01bcc93c344697845d71700706c
12. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x5d835b95d5208db573d85c7916288e13298a6304870df5d8743f0602b1a6acc8
13. http://ethtx.info/mainnet/0xdbc8b6dc987fa32fd08d75d729aad10aaef98bfc90249e771fbaa88f86825f24
14. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md#yearns-security-process
