# Incident disclosure 2021-05-20

## Summary

- An increase of target collateralization ratio has uncovered a flaw in `StrategyMakerETHDAIDelegate` accounting logic. 
- The error has led to a `harvest()` call falsely reporting a loss, which in turn led to a 10% dent in  `pricePerShare` of the yvWETH vault.
- The issue was fixed by migrating to a patched strategy which has offset the loss by reporting a profit.
- No funds were lost. Three users that made withdrawals during the incident have been made whole.
- Other strategies that use similar accounting logic remain safe, but will nevertheless be migrated to patched versions.
- The incident revealed opportunities to improve measures to detect and prevent `harvest()` calls that result in unexpected outcomes. 

## Background

`StrategyMakerETHDAIDelegate`[[1]](#References) uses ETH as collateral to open a collateralized debt position (CDP) with MakerDAO, draw DAI, and delegate it to yvDAI in order to earn yield.

Each MakerDAO CDP has a collateralization ratio (c-ratio) which represents the CDP's current collaterallization level, and a liquidation ratio which is the threshold below which the CDP becomes vulnerable to liquidation.

The Strategy uses `ETH-C` flavor of Maker Vault, which has a 175% liquidation threshold. The Strategy was using a 200% target ratio. Being whitelisted in the Maker OSM (oracle security module) allows it to adjust and unwind well in advance if the next oracle price puts it at risk.

At a time of a record high market volatility, the Strategy's target c-ratio was increased to 350% as a safety precaution. This helped to expose a flaw that had previously gone undetected.

## Details of Incident
As part of the first `harvest` call following the manual c-ratio update, the Strategy attempted to perform several key tasks:

1. Calculate the appropriate amount of DAI to be withdrawn from yvDAI and use it to repay CDP debt.
2. Remove ETH from its CDP so that it could be sent back to yvWETH in order to maintain the strategy's `debtRatio`.

During the first task, the Strategy incorrectly used the not-yet-realized "target" c-ratio[[2]](#References) rather than the "actual" current ratio to calculate how much DAI to withdraw and repay to the CDP.

As a result, the Strategy withdrew less DAI than desired from yvDAI and used it to repay the CDP.

Before the Strategy was able to move on to the second task, to remove ETH from its CDP, it failed a conditional check[[3]](#References) that made the Strategy believe the CDP was already in an underwater state. In response, the Strategy's harvest reported a 6,554 ETH loss back to the vault[[4]](#References) despite it not actually having suffered a liquidation.

The reported loss caused yvWETH's `pricePerShare` value to plummet by more than 10% from `1.010846447808878392` to `0.906288551219252309`.

While the Strategy had all its assets intact, its faulty accounting could not be corrected.

Over the course of the incident, three users made withdrawals from yvWETH at the articifially low `pricePerShare` value, and have since been made whole.

## Details of Fix

A new version of `StrategyMakerETHDAIDelegate` was deployed, that uses the current c-ratio to calculate the withdraw amount from yvDAI.[[5]](#References) This prevents future similar scenarios where debt is underpaid to the MakerDAO CDP.

Because strategy migration is able to transfer ownership of the CDP, the new Strategy was able to account for all assets correctly. No intermediate contract was required.

As part of migration, all contents of the old CDP[[6]](#References) were transferred to a new CDP[[7]](#References) via MakerDAO's low-level CDP fungibility feature.

Following migration, the first harvest of the new strategy reported a profit of 6,556 ETH which fully restored the yvWETH `pricePerShare`[[8]](#References).

## Timeline of Events

- **May 20 01:03 UTC** Strategy target collateralization ratio is adjusted to 350%[[9]](#References)
- **01:29** Strategy is harvested, reporting an artificial loss[[10]](#References)
- **01:50** User reports a share price drop
- **01:53** War room is started
- **02:21** UI warning is put up
- **04:04** Vault deposit limit is set to 0 to prevent deposits taking advantage of the artificially low share price[[12]](#References)
- **08:12** Accounting fix v1 proposed
- **10:40** Accounting fix v2 proposed
- **13:19** Accounting fix v3 proposed
- **14:11** Accounting fix v4 proposed. Agreement in war room to pursue it as a viable solution.
- **17:06** New strategy is deployed[[15]](#References)
- **18:19** Migration is executed. Within a single transaction[[8]](#References):
    - Fees for the vault and strategy were disabled
    - Strategy was migrated
    - New CDP opened
    - Harvest reports 6556 ETH profit 
    - Fees on vault and strategy were re-enabled
- **19:17** UI warning is removed

## Third Party Disclosures

As per Yearn's security process[16], the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to to this publication.

## References

1. https://etherscan.io/address/0x946a03264bba08d1f90df1ce0bbd3394c3ab1cfa
1. https://etherscan.io/address/0x946a03264bba08d1f90df1ce0bbd3394c3ab1cfa#code#L1676
1. https://etherscan.io/address/0x946a03264bba08d1f90df1ce0bbd3394c3ab1cfa#code#L1680
1. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x09d08d6a2caeb6f4f1c90ac68adea93f758dc57d173acfa6621d92f3dc3277d0
1. https://etherscan.io/address/0x1a5890d45090701a35d995be3b63948a67460341#code#L1700
1. https://defiexplore.com/cdp/23551
1. https://defiexplore.com/cdp/24019
1. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0xc0ce9effb23616906fb04c5400764fc5f036c2977939c976e959aad23326fb55
1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x06a12cbc6b2415f9789d3db052d837c6fb38b3eb74624b9fed53f6e23104019a
1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x09d08d6a2caeb6f4f1c90ac68adea93f758dc57d173acfa6621d92f3dc3277d0/advanced
1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x4fc4e03751af80bf1bd548346ef6cdcb0ee99219379ffb7e9088585a4ef73c7e
1. https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0x4f7e0254eee6a2e2847cd4562fc2178d978b2ebfe424c8b5a6b93a3662f41525
1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x216abefbba23885d385278cb44573f407e250c9f4f65260c4bc71921e0ceeb19
1. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x8dfecd98048998b91223303890f3e0f28b0b863077f98189090a837932fa6041
1. https://etherscan.io/address/0x1a5890d45090701a35d995be3b63948a67460341
1. https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md
