# Incident disclosure - 2022-11-07

## Summary
- The yvUSDC Stargate strategy incorrectly reported a loss during an harvest.
- A bug in the strategy was discovered where a loss is reported when unable to honor the full withdraw request. 
- yvUSDC v2 vault experienced a temporary share price dip during the incident. But was restored less than two hours following the faulty harvest.
- Strategy has been updated with fixed accounting, was redeployed, and migrated
- No funds were lost. All operations have returned to normal as they were prior to the event.

## Background
`StargateUSDCStaker` strategy [[1]](#References) supplies USDC to Stargate Finance to earn STG. Earned tokens are harvested and sold for more USDC which is deposited back into the strategy.

During withdrawals, a user specifies the amount to redeem in their request. The Stargate contract has a `deltaCredit` variable that dictates the maximum amount that can be withdrawn at a given time. If user attempts to withdraw more than this amount, their request is overwritten to redeem only the lesser amount. 

## Details of Incident

A loss of 223,489.75 USDC was incorrectly reported during the `harvest` function call [[2]](#References) which updates the vault's profit and loss figures.

This was due to the `_amountNeeded` value in the strategy being greater than Stargate contract's `deltaCredit` variable. As a result, the Stargate contract transferred less USDC than the strategy expected. This edge case, while a normal operation, was not accounted for in the strategy's `withdrawSome` logic. The difference between `_amountNeeded` and the actual amount withdrawn should have been considered illiquid, but not a loss by the strategy. This resulted in the strategy improperly reporting a loss, despite not losing any money.

This resulted in an accounting loss only, as the amount reported as a loss was simply not withdrawn from Stargate.

Further, Yearn's health check system - a backup measure meant to block automated harvests with exceptionally high profits/losses before they are reported - was never enabled in this specific strategy. This allowed the harvest to proceed uninterupted.

A war room was initiated, corrective actions were discussed, and a plan was executed.

## Details of Fix

The following fixes were implemented:

1. Enable health check on the strategy and disable further automated harvests
1. Airdrop 223,490 USDC to yvUSDC from strategist multisig to offset the loss and elevate the vault’s `pricePerShare` to the pre-incident value. This was done to fix the share price in the quickest way possible, without users depositing/withdrawing at an incorrect share price. The strategy would later reimburse the multisig so that no deficits are realized.
1. The strategy's withdraw logic was corrected to account for partial withdraw when `deltaCredit` is lower than the `_amountNeeded`
1. Both of Stragate strategies (the USDT version of this strategy was also found to have same accounting bug) have been migrated.
1. All production strategies have been checked to ensure that health checks are properly configured. A plan is also being reviewed to have health checks enabled by default upon strategy deployment.

## Timeline of events

- **October 12th, 2022 at 21:17 (UTC)** `StargateUSDCStaker` strategy reports a 223,489.75 USDC loss after out-of-order harvest [[3]](#References).
- **21:34** A war room is created and actions are undertaken per established procedures to mitigate the issue and prevent any further issues.
- **21:40** A msig transaction is prepared to remove the strategy from the withdraw queue.
- **22:51** Vault share price is fixed. This was done by airdropping USDC directly to the vault. To do this, the strategist multisig swapped DAI to USDC [[4]](#References), then transferred it directly [[5]](#References) to the yvUSDC vault.

## Third Party Disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document[[6]](#References), the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to to this publication.

## References

1. StargateUSDCStaker contract [0x7C85c0a8E2a45EefF98A10b6037f70daf714B7cf](https://etherscan.io/address/0x7C85c0a8E2a45EefF98A10b6037f70daf714B7cf)
2. [Harvest txn analysis](https://ethtx.info/mainnet/0xe52fbd6012f7abf885d873b701c7e5493a87e05c973d5232be16419c385ee618/)
3. https://etherscan.io/tx/0xe52fbd6012f7abf885d873b701c7e5493a87e05c973d5232be16419c385ee618
4. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x4cae7d981828ddb5d0c600b75194e6e304903186e96f776f58bf9055f4e66f2f
5. https://etherscan.io/tx/0x8b0b04f13e35eb505ba5f2aeb352941df56568fd8c6b01b08d334d984dcaf9d0
6. [Yearn's Security Process](https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md)