# Incident disclosure - 2023-05-21

## Summary
- Yearn's yVault staking zap on Optimism did not properly refund a user attempting to zap in funds above the USDT vault's deposit limit. Excess funds sent to the zap should have been returned to the user, but instead they remained in the zap contract.
- Once space in the vault opened up for another user to deposit, the next user to zap in received their own expected USDT as well as the "stuck" USDT from the zap contract. This sequence occurred twice.
- One user benefitted ~$20k, another lost ~$21k, and a third had a net gain of $1k from a loss and gain (and reported the bug). The user whose funds were stuck has been made whole, and the user who reported the issue has been awarded a bug bounty.
- Vault deposit limits have been raised, and all staking pools have been migrated to a new zap that prevents this issue from happening in the future. Yearn will continue distribution of our OP grant uninterrupted, with over $1 million in rewards remaining. 

## Background
- As a part of Yearn's expansion to Optimism, a grant was received for 1m $OP from the Optimism Foundation, to be distributed to protocol users over the course of a year. To facilitate staking of vault tokens for rewards in one step, Yearn deployed a zap contract [[1]](#References).
- The `StakingRewardsZap` accepts a vault's underlying token, deposits to the chosen vault, and stakes in Yearn's yVault staking contract on Optimism on behalf of the user.
- The zap expects to deposit all of the tokens it receives, and then stake the vault tokens for the user in the staking contract.

## Details of Incident
- In this case, the yvUSDT vault had a low ($1m) deposit limit. Thus, even though the zap tried to deposit all of the USDT it held for the user, it hit the deposit limit.
- Normally, the vault would enforce that the user receives the appropriate shares for the amount desired to deposit. However, the zap used `deposit()` which deposits the user's full balance **or** the remaining space up to the deposit limit (whichever is lower), and *does not* revert based on how much is ultimately deposited.
- Thus, a combination of using the `deposit()` function, in conjunction with the deposit limit being hit meant that a user zapping in would not receive the appropriate amount of yvUSDT credited to their account, with the excess USDT remaining in the zap contract.

## Details of Fix
### Short-term fix
- The deposit limit on yvUSDT was raised to $10m [[2]](#References). As this bug only occurred when the deposit limit was reached, this allowed time to deploy a new zap with a permanent fix.

### Long-term fix
- Zap PR with diff to old zap [[3]](#References)
- This updated zap [[4]](#References) more explicitly tracks the amount zapped, enforces expected behavior with a `require()` statement, and also uses `vault.deposit(uint256)`, which contains another check [[5]](#References) at the vault level to ensure a zap user receives the shares they expect.

## Timeline of events

- **May 20th, 2023 at 18:46 (UTC)** `0xb2d6ef31d536c4a3999e3c96f070209a8598dc57` loses ~20,500 USDT, stuck in the zap because deposit limit was hit [[6]](#References). 
- **21:28** `0x3f7c10cbbb1ea1046a80b738b9eaf3217410c7f6` withdraws 33002 USDT, opening up space in the vault [[7]](#References).
- **May 21st 00:03** `0x38fa7bf4911e3ddeeff3ee03dee81c4d91556d1e` zaps in 1180 USDT, gets 21520 USDT worth of yvUSDT [[8]](#References).
- **13:01** User reaches out to Yearn's security team regarding insufficient yvUSDT received following a zap.
- **13:08** `0x57b8f871c92770fa22d3fd42cf22d9c492d9c2cc` zaps in 31128 USDT, gets 9409 USDT worth of yvUSDT [[9]](#References).
- **15:06** yvUSDT Deposit limit is raised to $10m as a short-term mitigation [[2]](#References).
- **16:36** `0xb2d6ef31d536c4a3999e3c96f070209a8598dc57` zaps in 2 USDT, gets 21721 USDT worth of yvUSDT [[10]](#References).
- **May 31st, 2023 at 00:25 (UTC)** New zap deployed, and staking pools updated to use new zap [[11, 12]](#References).

### Total USDT flows
- `0x57b8f871c92770fa22d3fd42cf22d9c492d9c2cc` lost ~21k USDT
- `0x38fa7bf4911e3ddeeff3ee03dee81c4d91556d1e` received extra ~20k USDT worth of vault tokens
- `0xb2d6ef31d536c4a3999e3c96f070209a8598dc57` gained an extra ~1k between loss and subsequent gain

## Third Party Disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document [[13]](#References), the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to this publication.

## References
1. [Vulnerable zap contract](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0xd155f5bf8a475007fa369e6314c3673e4bb1e292)
2. [Tx to raise yvUSDT deposit limit](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xfc4f4372975868caf455de0dc2ae9e8589ffc8f09e92196a611d89d5b3ee158a)
3. [PR with fix](https://github.com/dudesahn/OptimismyVaultStaking/pull/1)
4. [New deployed zap with fix](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x498d9dcbb1708e135bdc76ef007f08cba4477be2)
5. [Vault deposit function check](https://github.com/yearn/yearn-vaults/blob/97ca1b2e4fcf20f4be0ff456dabd020bfeb6697b/contracts/Vault.vy#L921)
6. [Zap tx #1](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x86dabe12976d4a0f0f2c92d03ae4382690a56287de36dc869018967a97e443a1)
7. [Withdrawal tx #1](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xf4b3f5f1b01dae23086fd34c4b13ab27e412d7a0f1da06f5333f9fbfac0691a3)
8. [Zap tx #2](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x12eb99fc4d95254f1e00df03e6e9b8f428d26dfc8e5fe99f6ea50c0be87ec97d)
9. [Zap tx #3](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0x16ab08c4469b983501aac88bebdf54f1d16a77319f682376a0d5a4d9381226d7)
10. [Zap tx #4](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xd024d64d9e235ab17bc991d920d0bd8ded728296da8ea6043c721cef82b8749a)
11. [New zap deployment](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xbd473ed932aa7d7fcc19c98f10da2d7b625dc4948126bd507e93f78ac316b5aa)
12. [Staking pools updated to use new zap](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xdb067adcd86e27736822a8653989923fba263d625ed35019383de26cef34fbfe)
13. [Yearn's Security Process](https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md)
