# Incident disclosure - 2023-03-13

## Summary

- On March 13th 2023, Euler Finance was exploited [[1]](#References) via a flashloan attack. Although having no direct exposure to Euler, two Yearn vaults have suffered from indirect losses due to strategies having invested in protocols that in turn were using Euler.
- Losses are capped to at most $1.38m. Yearn developers continue to work with affected third party protocols to mitigate the shortfall. Any remaining losses will be covered by the Yearn treasury.
- Affected vaults remain fully operational.


## Background

Euler is a permissionless lending protocol like Aave and Compound. The codebase received multiple audits [[2]](#References), including top security firms such as Halborn, Solidified and ZK Labs, Certora, and Sherlock.

The vulnerability was introduced in eIP-14 [[3]](#References) with the `donateToReserves` function missing a health check. This allowed the attacker to make their account insolvent, liquidate themselves, and still receive the collateral.

Detailed analysis of the Euler incident has been published [[4]](#References)[[5]](#References). Lost assets include DAI, WBTC, sETH, and USDC, for a total of approximately $197m. Impacted protocols include Angle, Balancer, Idle, Inverse, SwissBorg, Swivel, Temple DAO, Yield, and others.

## Details of Incident

Out of the 30+ protocols that Yearn integrates with, two were impacted by the Euler hack: 

1) Idle Finance
2) Angle Protocol

### Strategies impacted

1) **StrategyIdleV2 [Best yield]**: Supplies assets to Idle's Best Yield vaults (single-sided liquidity pools) to earn IDLE and COMP.
2) **StrategyAngle**: Supplies assets to Angle Protocol as a Standard Liquidity Provider for sanTokens which are staked to earn ANGLE.

### Estimated maximum loss 

The below table shows the estimated maximum loss, assuming all Euler exploited funds are lost and no recovery plan is proposed by Euler and other affected protocols.

| Strategy | TVL | Euler Exposure  | Max loss |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |-------- |
| [StrategyIdleUSDC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x66f7b6E7EB858075d6F2c5615F22659a1A20f6D6) | 1,088,314     | 99%      |1,077,430
| [StrategyIdleUSDT](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1de1401c71362C05C680c5Fd073888719d8f4196) |2,720,356| 4.5%     | 122,416
| [StrategyAngleUSDC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x7C2b9DB2Ae5aCC6fAC2Fd6cE9b01A5EB4bDD1309) |438,872| 40% |175,548 |

**Total max loss**: 1,252,978 USDC and 122,416 USDT

### Notes

- At the time of the Euler hack, 17,614,940 USDC of Angle's Core module was invested in Euler.
- Most of Idle's USDC was invested in Euler, while USDT was supplied to AAVE and is expected to be fully recovered once the protocol is unpaused.
- Idle best yield vaults are covered by junior tranches that will reduce the losses minimally.

## Details of Fix

After becoming aware of the exploit, Yearn developers initiated a war room per established procedures and started taking actions to assess exposure, mitigate potential risks, and prevent any further issues.

A full probe of existing strategies and the potential impact of the Euler hack was done. Due to the USDC depeg that occurred in the days prior, Yearn's vault management team had derisked positions which limited exposure to Euler.

Keepers were removed from affected strategies to ensure that no lossy harvest would be triggered. Team members reached out to affected protocols to gather additional information. The vault management team also decided to unwind the `NoHedgeBalancerTripod` strategy to cover potential additional liquidity being required from the vaults.

Yearn developers continue to work with affected third party protocols to mitigate the shortfall. Any remaining losses will be covered by the Yearn treasury.

## Timeline of events
- **March 11th, 2023** Vault management team decides to de-risk the Angle position, freeing up 2.9m USDC and 692k DAI.
- **March 13th, 2023 at 08:51 (UTC)** Euler Finance protocol gets exploited via a flashloan attack.
- **12:01** A war room is created and actions are undertaken per established procedures to assess exposure, mitigate potential risks, and prevent any further issues.
- **13:02** Transaction prepared to disable `keeper` and ensure no lossy harvest is triggered.
- **14:55** Transaction prepared to unwind strategy `NoHedgeBalancerTripod` and ensure sufficient liquidity is available.
- **16:01** Disclosure of limited exposure to Euler exploit via Twitter [[6]](#References).

## Third-Party Disclosure

As per Yearn's security process document [[7]](#References), the project does not currently have any established bilateral disclosure agreements. In line with our security policy, no disclosure has therefore been made to third parties prior to this publication.

## References

1. https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/03/13/euler-defi-protocol-exploited-for-nearly-185m/
2. https://docs.euler.finance/security/audits
3. https://forum.euler.finance/t/eip-14-contract-upgrades/305
4. https://www.hacknote.co/17c261f7d8fWbdml/doc/186daaddc4cl77Dj#186daaddc4cl77Dj
5. https://medium.com/@omniscia.io/euler-finance-incident-post-mortem-1ce077c28454
6. https://twitter.com/iearnfinance/status/1635312188712792065
7. [Yearn's Security Process](https://github.com/yearn/yearn-security/blob/master/SECURITY.md)